# Archimedes-Discovery-of-Pi
Introduction Greek Mathematician Archimedes’s discovery of Pi is the largest fraction known to humans. The number π (spelled as “pi”) is a mathematical constant – approximately equal to 3.14159.  It is defined as the ratio of a circle’s circumference to its diameter &amp; is also called Archimedes constant.  The π cannot be expressed as a common fraction &amp; its decimal representation has not been found by supercomputers &amp; goes on into trillions of numbers after 3.14 &amp; never ends.  Ancient civilizations including Egyptians &amp; Babylonians required fairly accurate approximations of π for practical computations. In 250 BC Greek mathematician, Archimedes created an algorithm to approximate π with reasonable accuracy to 7 digits.  In this article, we will discuss the history and importance of Pi. Also, describe the Deep learning prediction of the digits of Pi.  Archimedes Discovery of Pi Description Archimedes (287-212 BCE) was a pioneer in the fields of mathematician and mechanical engineering. He is greatest recognized for formulating Archimedes’ Principle. That is well-known as the law of buoyancy. Similarly, he observed a lot of other laws of physics. He logged his observations as mathematical theorems.  Archimedes reaches the logical decision that the ratio of a circle’s circumference to its diameter is greater than 3 1/7 but less than 3 10/71. This is a very good estimate in his work on the measurement of the Circle. That is known as the mathematical constant we today call “pi” (π).  History of Pi (π) Pi (π) has been recognized for almost 4000 years. The prehistoric Babylonians calculated the area of a circle by taking 3 times the square of its radius that presented a value of pi = 3. One Babylonian tablet shows a value of 3.125 for π that is a nearer approximation. The Egyptians considered the area of a circle by a formula that provided the estimated value of 3.1605 for π. The first calculation of π was completed by Archimedes of Syracuse. Archimedes approached the area of a circle by using the Pythagorean Theorem. That was used to discover the areas of two regular polygons. The polygon carved inside the circle and the polygon in which the circle was circumscribed. In the meantime, the definite area of the circle lies between the areas of the inscribed and circumscribed polygons. The areas of the polygons provided upper and lower bounds to the area of the circle. Archimedes distinguished that he had not found the value of π then only an estimate inside those limits. Archimedes presented that π is between 3 1/7 and 3 10/71 like this. Importance of Pi The number Pi or π is one of the most significant numbers in our universe. Discover humankind’s journey—efforts all over the ages that really transcend cultures—to calculate, imprecise, and realize this mysterious number. It is an essential concept that seems in all features of mathematics. Pi is a vital concept that benefits from knowing the universal truths and some mathematical concepts. Generally, pi values are used in concepts such as trigonometry, geometry, and advanced concepts like probability, statistics, and complex numbers. Pi is a well-identified mathematical constant used all over the world. In early times it is used as a top-secret code for certain confidential works. Later, a circle containing 3600 and π is used to denote the 3600 of a circle. It is mentioned as a circular constant. Deep learning prediction of the digits of Pi An adequately big neural network can easily mimic one of the several algorithms for producing the digits of π. It’ll require to be big enough to put up the necessary logic and memory for variables. Though, there’s nothing essentially unpredictable about those digits. They are without a glitch computable, with really pretty short computer programs. There’s no motive to attempt this, actually. There’s no aim to imagine any deep revelation from a neural network that learned to compute the digits of π. It can be exciting from the viewpoint of studying the easy-to-read power of Neural Networks, and the quantity of information required to train for a short algorithm. Neural Networks aren’t a fit algorithmic paradigm for this kind of computation. However, there’s no object to suppose this to be aware or valuable from a mathematical perspective. For more details visit:https://www.technologiesinindustry4.com
